According to Dr. Carol Dweck, psychologist and author of the book _Mindset_, there are two fundamental mindsets. The first being a growth mindset. This is when an individual sees their abilities as an evolving quality able to improve when focused and worked on. The Growth Mindset can be considered the perferred mindset as it allows people to redirect frustration from failure into motivation to sharpen their malleable skills. The other is a fixed mindset. This mindset makes a person believe they are given a set amount of talent or intelligence. Applying this way of thinking can cause people to try less and not focus on improvement because their potential is restricted. Limiting oneself can create a sense of inescapeable inadequacy, as seeing failure as a final result rather than a chance to learn from one's mistakes causes fewer chances to succeed. 

One instance of when I executed a growth mindset is when I started drawing. Starting out, I could only draw really bad anime-style drawings. This greatly discouraged me since it seemed that no matter how much I drew, the end result was always terrible. However, instead of giving up, I changed my view of drawing as a fun activity rather than just practice. I also opened up my resources; began gaining inspiration from various art types. Diligently I kept drawing everyday in order to improve. But self-study was not the only way I bettered myself. I also took art electives during school, looked up tutorials when a certain medium of art gave me trouble, and made sure to see my ability to do art as an evolving trait. Though, I haven't always had the same response to a difficult situation. 

In a differnt instance, I had a very fixed mindset. I managed to get my first serving job at an upscale restaurant. Immediately I had difficulty keeping up with all the little rules that were enforced. Some perticular things I had trouble executing were visualizing which side of the table I would be facing, which arm I'd hold the plate in order to serve open-handed, keeping light conversation that lived within the range of "friendly" but "formal" as well, and all the while check in with multiple tables every two minutes. I got flustered and felt like it was something I could not handle. And unfortunately, my training manager agreed with me. She often voiced her anger about my job performance, and this did little to help my anxiety at work. So I quit. I believed that I could not improve as a server, so I did not try to put in more time mastering the art of fancy wine-opening, paradoxal ediquette, and numbered tables. I applied my fixed mindset in this case. 

I will try to apply the same mindset I use for art to the work given to me at the Iron Yard. I believe if I view coding as fun and change practice to playing, I will be able to grow in this field. And with the aid of Google, I truly believe I will be unstoppable.

#### Sources

+ [_Mindset Online_](http://mindsetonline.com/whatisit/about/) - The official website of Dr. Carol Kweck's book _Mindset_.
+ [_The Power of Yet_](https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve) - Dr. Carol Kweck's TED talk.
+ [_Fixed Mindsets vs. Growth Mindsets_](http://michaelgr.com/2007/04/15/fixed-mindset-vs-growth-mindset-which-one-are-you/) - Further illustrates some of the diff
